# Git Definitions

**Instructions: ** Define each of the following Git concepts.

* What is version control?  Why is it useful? "Version control" refers to a type of system tool that keeps records of changes made to a particular file or set of files. They can specifically recall older versions of the files that were previously saved in the system, which is especially useful for developers in keeping track on what changes have been made over time, as well as for projects where keeping every version/configuration of a file is necessary.
* What is a branch and why would you use one? In short, branches are the versions of the Git repository. Every Git repository contains a master branch that acts as the main version of the entire set of files and/or folders. Additional branches, referred to as feature branches, can be made as perfect copies of another branch's current configuration. These additional branches are used to allow coders to experiment and/or make changes to their personal copy of the repository's code without having to alter the master branch. And if the new code configurations in the feature branches are accepted by the coders, they could eventually merge the new content with the master branch to create a newer, more advanced version of the repository.
* What is a commit? What makes a good commit message? Committing your changes means that you are confirming the new data configuration as a save point, thus creating a new version of the branch. The best commit messages that can be left are not overly wordy, very straight-to-the-point, and provides enough meaning to ensure its message would not be misinterpreted by others.
* What is a merge conflict? A merge conflict occurs when various aspects of two merging branches attempt to create changes that conflict with one another. These conflicts tend to occur when multiple people work on their own personal version of a particular branch and end up with conflicting results, such as a difference in an important line of data or the complete abscence of files that were important to the other branch.